>> Steve Kinney: We'll
start with this one.
This is it's technically react,
but it doesn't matter, umm.
Which is we want to just spy on
our good friend alert, right?
And so this one,
I'll kind of get us started with it, and
then we'll take it for a spin from there,
umm, should render an alert.
Button should trigger an alert.
The only thing that you will need,
umm, be honest is just,
the ability to type into a field, right?
And so if we look at this function,
we've got a input labeled message, right?
And so just to review, we're going to say.
>> Steve Kinney: Const input equals, umm,
we got to render this component too.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we're gonna render the alert button.
The input, I will start you out with.
I'm going to do everything but
the mocking for you at this point.
The input is, a, screen get by label.
>> Steve Kinney: Get my message.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's
do that act in this.
This'll probably work.
Let's be good people.
>> Steve Kinney: Act.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
so this is also a sync.
>> Steve Kinney: And
here we'll take the input.
>> Steve Kinney: And so
now we can type in that field and
then we also need that
button that we saw earlier.
So let's go take a look at what that is.
It is called trigger alert.
>> Steve Kinney: [INAUDIBLE]
button
with the name.
>> Steve Kinney: And I'm gonna put
a dot only on this one real quick.
>> Steve Kinney: It's the only
one we care about right now.
And make sure I'm in there.
>> Steve Kinney: User vata,
type into the input field.
Okay, so at this point, it's not doing,
it's not triggering the button.
What we wanna do is we got some of
the Dom testing stuff in place, which is,
we're getting the input field,
we are typing into it.
And we know that works,
cuz if it couldn't find the field, or
it couldn't find the button,
the test would have blown up, right?
And we know that it's typing
into the input field, right?
I mean, after that, we also wanna click
on the button, but we wanna do a spy on
alert, and did it get called with
the thing we were expecting, right?
And that's gonna be our kind of, so
we need to, if we think about what we did
with like spying on log, right, we need
to spy on log, or in this point, alert.
And we just wanna verify that when we
click the button, alert got called, right?
So, things that I will once again show
you to prime your brain correctly, umm,
which is, if we went back to that scratch
pad, actually I'll just put it up here.
>> Steve Kinney: This is
what we wrote earlier.
All right,
if you wanna mock out the implementation,
you can do mock implementation as well.
>> Steve Kinney: With
whatever you want it to do.
I don't know if we really care, but that's
effectively for spying on a built in.
Cuz again, we couldn't really test
whether not alert was called anyway,
we'll spy on it.
And we wanna do is be able to one
figure out how to click that button,
which we know how to do, and then we wanna
assert that alert was actually called
with the message that it should
have been called with, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Click on the button and
look and
see if alert was called with the message.
Cool.
>> Steve Kinney: Okay, so let's,
let's play around with this one.
Then we'll look at a few
more kind of ideas and
a few other kind of fun
things along the way.
All right, so we wanted to make sure that
alert was in fact called in this case.
So we do know that we will need
to go ahead and hit the button.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, but
we haven't actually spied on and
subbed out what alert
does in this case either.
To be clear in JSDOM,
I don't know if calling
alert does anything like,
because there's no.
>> Steve Kinney: I mean,
not like not in a fake DOM though.
I don't really don't know what happens.
Let me tell you how often I use
alert on a day-to-day basis,
but we logged on console log and
I was like, what's the only other thing?
Cool.
So in this case,
what we'll do is we'll say,
like, alert spy, and we'll say.
>> Steve Kinney: VI spy on the only like,
that point alerts on window.
And I don't know if it needs
a mock implementation.
Let's find out if it blows up on us.
Cool.
>> Steve Kinney: And.
>> Steve Kinney: So
now what we should be able to.
Do is expect alerts by.
>> Steve Kinney: To have been called.
>> Steve Kinney: And you could argue
that this could be one one expectation.
But just to make a point, alerts by--.
>> Steve Kinney: It's just alert,
spy, it's just a large spy.
>> Steve Kinney: That's
interesting.
Like I called with alert,
exclamation point.
Hello.
>> Steve Kinney: Because it starts
out with a message in there,
super interesting.
Nice to know.
I like this because we're going to play
around with this for a few reasons.
So I could like, you know what I can do?
Here's a bonus.
User event, fun thing.
>> Steve Kinney: Take that input and
clear it out.
Like you can interact with the DOM
any way a user would, right?
We'll go ahead and clear it out.
And now we got called, correctly, which
again was my test technically helping me
by showing me that there was
an inflammation to think that I, you know,
it's like we joke about how future you
forgets what current you is doing.
See also right now, so like, show of
hands, like who feels good about this?
Like who feels.
I love this lifestyle for myself.
>> Student 1: [LAUGH] This one
specifically, or just testing in general?
>> Steve Kinney: Testing, no,
this, like, the idea that we're,
trying to take third party stuff and
control it and hope for the best.
Probably not, right?
And this is where that those injection
pieces can kind of become interesting.
Because here I'm like,
hoping that I can grab on window alert.
Then like calling and
all those kinds of things.
And it's just like,
with all of that, again,
the more of the outside world we try
to simulate, the harder it gets.
I would rather pass in
functionality that I need.
And you can have a default
to stuff very easily.
So like,
maybe it is like one of those like,
umm, this is really a form so
we'll do on submit, right?
Wouldn't it be nicer if we could
pass in on submit that maybe
defaults to alerting, but
we could pass in some functionality.
And we could say like, message.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, instead of
that default alert in there, right?
And take all the stuff that
you can't really control.
If you pass that stuff in, and this works
for React components, as well as it works
for object-oriented programming,
as well as it works for anything.
We could just pass in a function to
generate a random number to that
character that maybe if you
pass in nothing, it is maybe.
It's math.random, but
you could pass in something else as well.
And then giving that control to
the person using it instead of like, hey,
we do all this stuff that
you can't really get at.
And if you can do all these weird tricks,
and then maybe one day you can use it.
So we can say like const handle submit.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll pass that in.
>> Steve Kinney: So now we've got a
function where we're gonna pass in all of
that kind of other stuff.
Maybe we'll make this.
>> Steve Kinney: Default, message.
Cool, cool, cool.
Now this will fail cuz we don't
even have an alert spy anymore.
So the other one, like we talked about,
test driven development, right?
Where you write the test and
then make it pass,
that also works for
refactorings too, right?
Or bug-like cases where cool,
there is a bug,
write a test about the way you wish the
world worked and then manifest it, right?
So in this case, we can say that,
that handle submit to have been called and
then--.
>> Steve Kinney: Handle submit to
have been called with Hello, right?
This will fail because, like, right now,
this component has no idea about
taking props, right, which, you know,
it never got called, so on and so forth.
It is trying to call alert.
It's pretty angry about that as well.
So in this place, we can just
go ahead and just say--.
>> Steve Kinney: And
now we're gonna actually say handle--.
>> Steve Kinney: It's unsubmit, right.
>> Steve Kinney: And my test pass again
cuz now instead of trying to grab built-in
objects, I'm just passing in
the functions that I should call, right?
So a lot of times you find yourself doing
the things of like mocking and something
that stress you out and make you confused,
you know what the right answer is?
Don't do it [LAUGH].
Right, because if it's like not simple,
you know who's gonna be confused?
You a few months after you write it,right?
If you want to be able to like,
hey, call the function,
make it something you can pass in.
If it's supposed to use a random number,
have that be a function.
It can default to alert.
It can default to console log,
it can default to math.random, but
if you pass in values and
you have more control.